<!-- Recommended page name: "GIGAH RUSH". The pipe character in "GIGAH|RUSH" is MediaWiki syntax, so the stylized title is kept inside the article text. -->

{{Game
 | title         = GIGAH|RUSH
 | developer     = Tenevik Games
 | engine        = TypeScript / Vite, WebGL and canvas
 | platform      = Browser, HTML5 / WebGL
 | releasedate   = Playable browser build
 | genre         = Survival horror, ARPG shooter, life simulation, dungeon crawler
 | mode          = Single-player
 | media         = Digital browser game
}}

'''GIGAH|RUSH''' (Russian: '''ГИГАХРУЩ''') is a browser survival horror / ARPG shooter inspired by the [[Self-Assembly]] setting. The game is about expeditions, factions, monsters and everyday survival inside an endless Soviet-style concrete apartment block. It is playable directly in the browser and is distributed through itch.io.<ref name="itch">[https://tenevik.itch.io/gigahrush GIGAH|RUSH on itch.io]</ref>

The game does not retell the wiki as a reference book. Instead, it turns several core ideas of Self-Assembly into a playable loop: preparing supplies, leaving a safer living area, moving through hostile floors, dealing with NPCs, fighting or avoiding monsters, trading, stealing, managing documents and trying to return before a Self-Assembly event makes the route impossible.

== Overview ==

GIGAH|RUSH takes place inside a huge self-rearranging concrete [[Gigastructure]]. The player begins in a living zone and makes expeditions into more dangerous floors. A trip can begin with a rumor, contract, faction lead, quest, supply shortage or personal request. Before leaving, the player prepares food, water, ammunition, medicine, documents, weapons or PSI tools.

The world is built as a 1024×1024 toroidal concrete floor. Rooms, corridors, lifts, utility tunnels, markets, laboratories, ministry floors, caves and void zones are connected into one route system. Some route floors are authored, while others are generated procedurally for a run.

The horror is not limited to monsters. Hunger, thirst, sleep, weight, ammunition, reputation, debt, missing documents, faction territory, locked doors and route changes all affect whether an expedition can be finished safely.

== Gameplay ==

A typical expedition is built around several steps:

* receive a lead, rumor, contract, quest or request from an NPC;
* prepare food, water, weapons, ammunition, bandages, documents or PSI equipment;
* enter a hostile area controlled by residents, [[Liquidators]], cultists, scientists, traders, wild bands or monsters;
* decide whether to trade, steal, repair, escort, fight, hide, expose someone, forge papers, reroute or flee;
* survive Self-Assembly or leave before it begins;
* return with loot, money, reputation, experience, story progress, enemies, debt or other consequences.

The current browser build includes combat, trading, containers, inventory, a map, journal, faction screen, quests, contracts, rumors, an economy, browser saves, procedural floors, NPCs, monsters, PSI weapons, world events and the Self-Assembly system.

== Self-Assembly in the game ==

[[Self-Assembly]] is the central disaster in GIGAH|RUSH. It can begin with or without warning. During the event, doors and sealed passages can close, purple fog can leak through cracks, monsters become more active and the floor can become dangerous or impossible to cross.

The game includes several variants of Self-Assembly, including Istotit, Maronary and Veretar. They are designed as different types of threat with different signs, risks and aftermaths rather than only visual filters.

== World and factions ==

The game world is inhabited by residents, Liquidators, cultists, researchers of the Slime Research Institute, wild residents, traders, caravan groups and other factions. Factions can control zones, react to the player's actions, trade, give work, become hostile or change their attitude over time.

GIGAH|RUSH also has an A-Life style population system. Procedural NPCs have names, occupations, faction ties, inventory, personal attitude toward the player and death state. Only part of the population is materialized on the active floor, but deaths and important changes remain persistent facts of the world.

== Floors and spaces ==

The current build includes several kinds of route spaces:

* story floor types;
* authored route floors;
* seeded procedural or fallback route floors for a run;
* geometry, faction and anomaly profiles for procedural floors;
* numbered lift anomalies.

Spaces include living areas, communal rings, utility floors, collectors, metro tunnels, archives, markets, rooftops, production belts, laboratories, dark service zones, meat caves and void areas.

== Monsters and hazards ==

The game contains many base monster kinds and dangerous encounter variants, including crawlers, shadows, concrete creatures, pseudo-lifts, fog sharks, choir mothers, safeguards, water nightmares, blood plants and other beings.

Other hazards include hunger, thirst, exhaustion, limited ammunition, hostile NPCs, traps, expired documents, economic pressure, emergency systems, floor anomalies and Self-Assembly itself.

== Features ==

* Browser HTML5/WebGL game with no installation required.
* Procedural textures, sprites, sound and raycaster rendering.
* Canvas HUD instead of a DOM-heavy interface.
* 1024×1024 toroidal concrete floor structure.
* Story chain, side quests, contracts and rumors.
* Hundreds of items, physical weapons and PSI weapons.
* Player needs: health, hunger, thirst, sleep, PSI, weight and inventory.
* Economy with resources, trading, production, caravans, banking, credit and market pressure.
* Factions, reputation, personal NPC attitude and persistent consequences.
* Self-Assembly variants, aftermath marks, blood stains, bullet marks and other signs of past events.
* Optional Net Sphere terminal in supported online builds.

== Controls ==

* '''WASD''' — move.
* '''Mouse''' — look and aim.
* '''E''' — interact with a door, person, container, terminal or object.
* '''Space''' / '''Left Mouse Button''' — attack or shoot.
* '''I''' — inventory.
* '''M''' — map.
* '''Q''' — quests.
* '''L''' — journal.
* '''F''' — factions and A-Life ranking.
* '''N''' — Net Sphere terminal in the online build.

== Development ==

GIGAH|RUSH is made as a zero-runtime-dependency TypeScript/Vite browser game without an external game engine. The build is designed around a single browser HTML file. It uses WebGL, canvas HUD rendering, procedural visuals, procedural sound, flat entity arrays and data-oriented world storage.

The project is in active development. The public browser build already contains a playable survival loop with preparation, expeditions, combat, NPCs, factions, quests, procedural floors, Self-Assembly, saves, economy, items, PSI and persistent world consequences.

== Links ==

* [https://tenevik.itch.io/gigahrush GIGAH|RUSH on itch.io]
* [https://gigahrush.bileter.workers.dev Online browser build]
* [https://t.me/gigah_rush Project Telegram channel]
* [https://www.newgrounds.com/portal/view/1033564 GIGAH RUSH on Newgrounds]
* [https://dtf.ru/indie/5077801-gigahrush-brauzernyj-survival-horror DTF post]
* [https://gamedev.ru/projects/forum/?id=295485 GameDev.ru feedback thread]

== See also ==

* [[Self-Assembly]]
* [[Gigastructure]]
* [[Liquidators]]
* [[Infrastructure]]
* [[Population]]

== References ==

<references />

[[Category:Media]]
[[Category:The world of self-assembly]]
